# solid objects made of matter

it is common to think of matter as solid. then you melt ice. then you evaporate
water.

if you keep increasing temperature, water molecules (and all known substances)
drift apart into two atoms of hydrogen and one of oxygen, $H_2O$, as chemists
and physicsts have verified in multiple experiments.

if you keep increasing temperature, $H$ separated further into one electron and
one proton. Then "quarks", and so on.


# where is the mass?

mass, like many other concepts we are so accustomed to, doesn't need to exist
beyond being a useful concept that has been with us since times immemorial. Mass
is an idea. When newtown symbolically wrote it down, it was meant not to
understand the inner workings of massive objects, but to precisely ignore them
to focus focus on how the moved on the big scale (from a table, to the solar
system, and more.)

inspired by the success of Newton's mass, Maxwell himself took what has been
discovered by Coulomb as the "electrostatic force" encoded the charge as a
point-like divergent entity from when 'charge' emanates.


# gauss

<what has  gauss has to do?>



we understant electric current as


the movent of electrons, or "negatively charged particles".

Hydrogen is the simplest and most ubiquitous atom in the known universe.

that is to say that the most solid of objects is made up of simpler things that we call "atoms", which in turn are made of up simpler things, and so on.

solid objects don't look so solid when looked up closely.





it is not the goal of this book to be too pedagogical, but more of a straight shooter.

in that sentiment, we can ennumerate some of the problems the writer believes are a problem to physics today.

- what is matter?
- what is charge?
