# Part II — The Torus and Rydberg

Consider a flat rectangular sheet of paper, like a napkin. Imagine drawing
straight lines on it, each line connecting a pair of opposite edges. Together,
these lines form a grid on the napkin.

Now fold the napkin by identifying and gluing one pair of opposite edges. The
flat sheet becomes a tube.

Using a flexible napkin-tube, identifying and gluing its two circular ends
produces a closed, donut-shaped surface. This surface is called a torus.

Recalling the lines drawn on the original napkin, once the torus is formed, each
line becomes continuous only if it matches its own position when crossing an
identified edge. This requirement is called a continuity condition.

Let m be the number of lines drawn between one pair of opposite edges of the
napkin, and n the number of lines drawn between the other pair of opposite
edges.

Let the total area of the napkin be $a$, or, more suggestively, $E_0$.

The lines divide the napkin into a grid of cells. The more lines drawn on either
side, the more — and smaller — the cells.

When m = n = 0, the surface of the napkin is undivided. We can call this state
the "ground state".

Increasing the number of lines on both sides of the napkin the surface is
divided into 2 × 2 = 4 cells. When two lines are drawn in each direction, into 3
× 3 = 9 cells. When three lines are drawn, into 4 × 4 = 16 cells, and so on.

For now, we'll consider the cases where $m=n$. With at least 1 line drawn per
side, the area (or energy) of each cell is thus

$$
E_n = E_0/n^2
$$

We can say that for each side of the napkin.

Without going deeper on the analogy as to when or why to draw new lines,
hydrogen and other atoms seen to behave in this way or organizing energy in
cells of propotional to the ground state and the area of the cells.

The napkin, in general with $m$ and $n$ lines drawn, can be fitted back on the
surface of a torus.

In this granted abstract way, we have recovered the Rydberg series by
considering a grid like energy storage in the surface of the torus.
